.TH "hwcfg" "1" "04 May 2026" "1.0.0" "HwCfg manual"
.SH NAME
hwcfg \- A hardware configuration too.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hwcfg \fIOPTIONS\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhwcfg\fR is a hardware configuration tool. It has some very specific
functions.
.IP \(bu 4
You can change your CPU thermal and power limits. If done correctly
this can prevent throttling which can lead to logetivity of your
components.
.IP \(bu 4
You can change your GPU clocks. This is to prevent your GPU from
over working when it clearly does not need to.
.IP \(bu 4
You can load kernel modules as long as they are already present in the DKMS
source.
.IP \(bu 4
A bit out of scope, but something extra: if you have DuckDNS, you can
update to synchronise your I. P. address with your DNS.
.PP
A configuration file at the location \fB/etc/hwcfg.conf\fR is recommended,
albeit not mandatory to have.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B install
This will require some of the high-level dependencies that might otherwise not
be available on most package managers. These include: \fIRyzenAdj\fR,
\fIryzen_smu\fR, and \fIacer-wmi-battery\fR (only required for acer laptops).
.TP
.B --gaming
If a configuration file is not found, default values will be used for the
following:
.IP \(bu 4
\fBGPU_CLOCK_FREQ\fR=1200
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TDP\fR=25000
.IP \(bu 4
\fRCPU_TDP_FAST\fR=30000
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TEMP_LIMIT\fR=70
.IP \(bu 4
\fBAMD_PSTATE_STATUS\fR=passive
.PP The units of the aforementioned respectively are Megahertz (MHz),
.TP
.B --server-host
If a configuration file is not found, default values will be used for the
following
.IP \(bu 4
\fBGPU_CLOCK_FREQ\fR=400
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TDP\fR=15000
.IP \(bu 4
\fRCPU_TDP_FAST\fR=17000
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TEMP_LIMIT\fR=60
.IP \(bu 4
\fBAMD_PSTATE_STATUS\fR=passive
.TP
.B --game-server-host
If a configuration file is not found, the default values will be used for the
following
.IP \(bu 4
\fBGPU_CLOCK_FREQ\fR=1200
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TDP\fR=25000
.IP \(bu 4
\fRCPU_TDP_FAST\fR=30000
.IP \(bu 4
\fBCPU_TEMP_LIMIT\fR=70
.IP \(bu 4
\fBAMD_PSTATE_STATUS\fR=passive
.TP
milliwatts (mW), milliwatts(mW), Celcius (\(deC), and just a string.
.B --update-ddns
This option will update to syncrhonize your DNS to your current I. P. address.
.TP
.B --load-kmod <module>
So long as a kernel module is present in the \fIdkms\fR source tree, it will be
loaded by this command.
.TP
.B --battery-health <mode>
This only applies to Acer laptops, but this will limit your battery charging to
80%, preventing your battery from degrading faster.
.TP
.B --reset-battery-health
This is the same as using \fB--battery-health 0\fR. This will set your battery
health mode to the default value.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The command will return either \fB0\fR on success or \fB1\fR on failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fINilabhro Mondal\fR.
.SH ISSUES
Reporting any issues or bugs shall be done by the project's issue tracker.
.SH LICENSE
Published under the \fICC0 1.0 Universal Legal Code\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \(bu 4
.B curl(1)
.IP \(bu 4
.B dkms(8)
.IP \(bu 4
.B git(1)
.IP \(bu 4
.B modprobe(8)
.IP \(bu 4
.B nvidia-smi(1)
.IP \(bu 4
.B PKFCONF(1)
